{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13200\viewh10060\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1. Youth: Embracing My Appearance\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 The first process that came to mind\'97where I used a creative approach\'97was thinking about my appearance. Part of this was out of necessity: as a child with braces, glasses, an eye patch, and fiery-red curly hair, I felt like standing out from other kids. For a long time, I hated feeling to be different and tried to blend in by wearing my hair very short or hiding under hats. Through my clothing choices, I tried to communicate, that I\'92m just the same as others. Somehow, in my teens, this started to shift. Step by step, I learned to accept those differences. For example, I began choosing glasses I actually liked, instead of ones I hoped nobody would notice. By highlighting certain \'93different\'94 things about myself, I started gaining acceptance for who I was. This process of hiding or highlighting remains a fluid dynamic to this day.\
If I feel good in my body, I might wear a crop top, glittery jewelry, or dye my mustache to bring out my red hair. On days when I\'92m not feeling my best, I might pull on baggy clothes and a hoodie to avoid anyone noticing me\'97or my hair, which at times resembles a bird\'92s nest. If I really want to show someone that a meeting or event is special to me, I\'92ll plan a more thought-through outfit, groom myself carefully, and make sure my hair is on point.\
For me, the way I present myself is a form of communication for others It also helped me begin the process of accepting myself and who I am. When I was younger, I never wanted to \'93be different.\'94 Today, I\'92m actually somewhat grateful for it, because it taught me a lot about self-acceptance and might represent my very first creative designing approach.\
I do want to add one important note: this is just my personal experience of feeling different. I\'92m aware that many people face an entirely different level of pressure due to skin color, sexuality, gender, or other physical or mental traits. I don\'92t want to trivialize anyone else\'92s experiences, nor do I want to imply that being different is always good or empowering.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 2. Discovering Ecstasy: The Joy of Nonconformity\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 At some point, I discovered \'93ecstasy\'94 in a broader sense\'97spaces or moments that allow for more intense awareness of ourselves and each other. For me, \'93ecstasy\'94 can refer to a wide range of states and experiences: exploring my sexuality, extreme nature outings in the mountains or wilderness, dancing, and drug use. These states are often very intense, bringing heightened feelings of love, joy, fear, sadness, or freedom. They\'92re usually experienced alone, with a partner, or in small groups. Such moments require a lot of trust among those involved\'97trust initially based on following shared social norms.\
With the support of wonderful people, I began noticing how in these intense, ecstatic moments, certain social norms become irrelevant as long as everyone consents. By stepping away from norms like gender roles or power dynamics, a massive creative freedom emerged. It felt like I (or we) could actively \'93design\'94 these experiences, shaping them however those involved wanted. Realizing you didn\'92t have to be bound by typical social expectations in these moments was incredibly liberating.\
In the beginning, this newfound freedom applied mostly to those extreme experiences. Meanwhile, I was studying to become an environmental engineer\'97memorizing hundreds of flood barriers and dam types as fast as possible. We had to work hard, leaving little space to rethink ourselves or society on a deeper level. So, for a while, my discovery of these thinking processes and behaviors stayed confined to my ecstatic moments.\
As I neared the end of my bachelor\'92s degree, though, some of my rigid worldviews started to wobble, and I began questioning my studies. But since I was so close to graduating, dropping out didn\'92t seem like an option anymore. So I finished my bachelor\'92s in winter 2023, determined to take a step back and gain some distance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 3. Reevaluating My Life: The Big Shift\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 That craving for distance took me back to Basel after four years in Lausanne. Beyond wanting space and time, I didn\'92t have a concrete plan. My only commitment was my part-time job, which left me plenty of free hours. With so much time on my hands, I could now rethink and reflect, and what had once been limited to intense, ecstatic moments began to spread into my everyday life.\
Suddenly, everything was up for debate: my relationships, how I thought about love and happiness, my future plans, and my views on how power is distributed on this planet. I tried putting each element into the context of influences from my family, my environment, and society at large. I started asking how I wanted to live in the future, how I wanted to think about community, love, work, or even the idea of having a family. By not restricting myself to social norms, these questions opened up a huge creative freedom\'97where before, things had felt very binary and straightforward.\
During this time, I was lucky to explore many different jobs: teaching robotics to children, renovating and transforming an attic, or riding as a bicycle courier. I especially enjoyed working on the construction site; we were a small, supportive group, and I learned a lot about how a house is built.\
Along the way, I also met new people, and together we started to envision long-term lifestyles without nuclear families and suburban houses. Bit by bit, my old ideas about life, existence, and the world started to fade away, making space for fresh perspectives.\
It might sound lovely when described this way, but it wasn\'92t always easy. When you start questioning everything, huge voids can appear. If you begin to dissect the value of everything, sometimes it feels like nothing matters. My bachelor\'92s degree suddenly felt like nothing more than proof I could perform under pressure. I started noticing toxic masculine patterns in my older friendships and relationships\'97patterns that had always been there. My studies and my friendships, for better or worse, shaped my identity, so watching them unravel can be overwhelming.\
Sometimes, I caught myself daydreaming about how simple life might have been if I\'92d stayed in that old \'93bubble\'94: living in a monogamous relationship with kids, in a quaint \outl0\strokewidth0 house, maybe working for an environmental startup that helps me greenwash my soul. But these thoughts are short-lived.\
On a personal level, things can indeed be more complicated or exhausting because of this creative freedom\'97especially when I think about how many times I\'92ve had to explain to my parents why I no longer want to continue my academic career. But in return, I feel that decisions are now much more tangible and meaningful, because it truly seems like they matter. I value this newfound empowerment over my own life a lot.\
From a societal perspective, I also believe it\'92s important for individuals to examine the norms and power structures they\'92ve experienced, and to question their own role in capitalist, patriarchal, and imperialist mechanisms. Precisely because of this responsibility, I\'92d be thrilled to meet more people who are also eager to break away from norms and bring their own experiences, perspectives, and stories into the mix.\
}