{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What the Project Is Now\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Website & Its Components\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 At this stage, my project takes the form of a single website that weaves together all parts of my application: a CV, a Cover Letter, and the Portfolio work. My goal was to offer an experience that feels personal, interactive, and straightforward to navigate, so visitors can get an authentic sense of who I am, what I could contribute to the program, and what motivates me. If you run into any issues with any section, I suggest closing your browser, reopening it, and reloading the page. Unfortunately, for the moment the website isn\'92t compiling properly via mobile.\

\f0\b CV:
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 I included a standard CV in my submission to meet the formal application requirements\'97this version briefly sums up my academic, professional, and personal background. However, I\'92m also sharing a design-oriented CV that highlights key phases in my life where, in retrospect, design aspects in a broader sense played a major role. I believe this perspective of insight into my past might be more interesting for understanding why an environmental engineering graduate might pursue a master\'92s in a creative field.\

\f0\b Cover Letter:
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 This text draws out the main themes from my overall portfolio: my personal journey, my enthusiasm for designing processes and experiences, and the technical skills I\'92ve developed along the way. Although the Cover Letter can stand on its own, it feels more coherent placed here among the other elements that inspired and led to it.\

\f0\b Portfolio (\'93Simulation\'94 Branch):
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 The Portfolio section showcases the whole website project and breaks down the story in three steps:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What led me to do this?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What does the project look like right now?\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What might be possible in the future?\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 By providing not just the website on its own, but also the motivations and emotions behind it, I want to give you a deeper sense of how this project took shape. The simulation itself aims to simplify the complex interplay between trees, deer, and wolves in a forest ecosystem\'97ideally, people exploring it will come away with fresh insights into why certain species (such as wolves) play a key role, and how greed or purely monetary interests can harm woodland balance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Underlying Mechanics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 While the mechanisms on which the simulation is based are meant to represent reality to a certain extent, many real-world processes had to be simplified. For example, the simulation is limited to three populations, and the mobility of deer and wolves is neglected because it doesn\'92t play a role in this particular version. \

\f0\b Trees\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Growth & Aging:
\f1\b0  Each tree goes through a cycle of growing taller and heavier every year.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reproduction:
\f1\b0  Once mature, a tree can spread seeds, though success depends partly on forest density.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mortality:
\f1\b0  Trees can die of old age or become food for deer\'97especially young saplings (which are more vulnerable) and due to environmental stress factors. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Deer\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Population Growth:
\f1\b0  Deer reproduce at a rate that depends on factors like food availability and herd density.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Foraging:
\f1\b0  Deer feed on young, edible trees, which can stall the forest\'92s regrowth. If the forest thins out, it becomes harder for deer to find food, leading to starvation.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mortality & Migration:
\f1\b0  They can die of old age, starvation, or predation by wolves. Occasionally, new deer migrate into the forest, reflecting how real populations expand into suitable habitats.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Wolves\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Predation:
\f1\b0  Wolves rely on deer as their food source, hunting in packs for higher success rates.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reproduction & Mortality:
\f1\b0  Wolves also age, starve if deer numbers drop too low, and may migrate away if resources dwindle.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Trophic Impact:
\f1\b0  By preying on deer, they indirectly support tree growth (a classic top-down effect).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Inter-Species Dynamics\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Trees are the foundational producers, supplying nutrients for deer.\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Deer, in turn, can limit tree growth if their numbers explode.\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wolves keep deer populations in check, allowing the forest to regenerate.\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Striking a balance among these three groups leads to a more stable ecosystem over time.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Anchoring in Real-World Ecology\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Although the simulation is simplified, some fundamental mechanics of the simulation can be also found in established ecological concepts:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Trophic Cascades:
\f1\b0  As discussed by Ripple and Beschta (2012), predators like wolves trigger broad ecosystem changes by controlling herbivores.\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Carrying Capacity:
\f1\b0  C\'f4t\'e9 et al. (2004) highlight how unmanaged deer can overpopulate, damaging forests.\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wolf Reintroduction:
\f1\b0  Studies from Yellowstone National Park (Fortin et al., 2005) show how bringing back wolves altered elk patterns and fostered new plant growth.\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Forest Stand Dynamics:
\f1\b0  Oliver and Larson (1996) describe how sapling establishment and stand competition shape forest regeneration cycles.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In particular, 
\f0\b Ripple and Beschta
\f1\b0  emphasize how higher-level predators reduce overgrazing by keeping herbivore populations in check, which aligns with this simulation\'92s wolf-deer-tree balance. 
\f0\b C\'f4t\'e9 et al.
\f1\b0  demonstrate that deer can quickly exceed an ecosystem\'92s carrying capacity, mirroring the population crashes you might see if you remove all wolf predation here. 
\f0\b Fortin et al.
\f1\b0  further illustrate how even subtle changes in predator numbers can reshape herbivore feeding patterns, while 
\f0\b Oliver and Larson
\f1\b0  highlight the importance of seedling survival and stand competition, which is reflected in the young sapling stage of the simulation. By weaving in these findings, I hope to show how smaller-scale models can capture key feedback loops that shape real-world forests.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Simulation Components\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 While the mechanics define what happens in the background, I also aimed to make the simulation intuitive and fun to use:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Visual Grid:
\f1\b0  Represents forest density, with greener squares indicating heavier tree cover.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Health Bars/Population Bars:
\f1\b0  Show the current state of trees, deer, and wolves. If a bar is near its maximum, that species is at or beyond carrying capacity.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Buttons:
\f1\b0  Let you alter the ecosystem\'97for example, you might choose to \'93Harvest Trees,\'94 \'93Plant Saplings,\'94 or even \'93Shoot Deer\'94 or \'93Shoot Wolves\'94 for quick profit (though that may have big consequences in the long term).\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Graphs & Stats:
\f1\b0  Offer a quick overview of how populations change over time\'97useful for spotting booms, crashes, or recoveries.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Code References:
\f1\b0  Specific interactions or the code in general can be found under the following link [GIT HUB LINK] if you\'92re curious about the details.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 1 Ripple, W. J., & Beschta, R. L. (2012). Trophic cascades in Yellowstone: The first 15 years after wolf reintroduction. Biological Conservation, 145(1), 205-213.\
\
2 C\'f4t\'e9, S. D., Rooney, T. P., Tremblay, J. P., Dussault, C., & Waller, D. M. (2004). Ecological impacts of deer overabundance. Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics, 35, 113-147.\
\
3 Fortin, D., Beyer, H. L., Boyce, M. S., Smith, D. W., Duchesne, T., & Mao, J. S. (2005). Wolves influence elk movements: Behavior shapes a trophic cascade in Yellowstone National Park. Ecology, 86(5), 1320-1330.\
\
4 Oliver, C. D., & Larson, B. C. (1996). Forest stand dynamics: Updated edition. John Wiley and Sons.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}