{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14580\viewh11200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What Could the Future Hold?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 I\'92ve already mentioned where the project currently stands, so now I\'92d like to share how I would have continued if I\'92d had more time\'97especially regarding the simulation. I also would have loved to invest more effort in the website\'92s design and some of its mechanics. This includes refining the layout, creating a more unified look, and adding more effects and links to guide people smoothly through the content.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 General Thoughts on the Website\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 I plan to keep the website in some shape or form and might expand it in the future. I really like the concept of applying using a \'93combined\'94 website that features my CV, portfolio, and cover letter all in one place. It lets me tie different points together and offer a cohesive application. Plus, all I have to do is share a link, and everything\'92s right there.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Ideas for the Simulation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Enhancing the Simulation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 One part I would have loved to spend much more time on is the visualization. Currently, it shows a pixelated green area, along with health bars and graphs to illustrate the populations\'92 current states. With enough explanation, it\'92s understandable\'97but my goal was for people to see the simulation and immediately grasp what\'92s happening. Especially with the depth of information on population dynamics, there was potential to show more detailed visuals. One thing I considered was a 3D animation, viewed from above, showing how the forest evolves over time.\
I\'92ve created a [LINK] outlining these ideas, and I might have used Blender or Three.js. If users could see a 3D forest\'97possibly with deer and wolves moving around\'97it would be easier and more intuitive to see their roles in the ecosystem. However, since Blender and Three.js were completely new tools for me, the time investment to implement them would have been considerable.\
Another way to incorporate real-life phenomena in an intuitive manner would have been to offer different starting conditions. Visitors could choose from preset scenarios like \'93pest invasion,\'94 \'93severe weather conditions,\'94 \'93climate shift,\'94 or \'93intense forestry.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Scientific Models\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 In a more scientific setting that focuses on results and numbers rather than visualization, it would also be possible to expand the ecosystem with additional species or enrich existing populations with further functions, depending on the data needed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Games for Decision Makers\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 I\'92ve heard of projects that create games or simulations for decision-makers, giving them a low-risk, playful environment to guide them toward choices, that benefit humans and nature rather than their own privileges and pockets. I really like the idea of using accessible games to highlight global issues and subtly propose \outl0\strokewidth0 more sustainable and ethical choices\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Other Simulations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 I\'92ve also thought about different simulations one could create. For example, I\'92ve often wondered about simulating aspects of society and politics, then testing which forms of protest or resistance might be most effective in driving specific social or political change, and which might seem intuitive at first but prove counterproductive in the long run. I\'92m really curious about the feasibility of such a simulation.\
In general, all forms of sociological dynamics seem very tempting to model. Not necessarily calculate and predict potential future scenarios, but we could also illustrate social phenomena in a playful, interactive and intuitive way. \
Another idea came up recently during my civil service in Wallis, where I\'92m working on a biotope care program. Because this weeks site is so difficult to access, a helicopter had to transport all our heavy gear. My group discussed whether the helicopter\'92s carbon emissions are justified by the biodiversity benefits of caring for this remote biotope. Of course, it\'92s not just an ecological question but also an ethical one, and we didn\'92t come up with a definitive answer. Maybe a simulation could offer interesting insights by weighing factors like habitat improvement, species protection, and carbon costs.\
\
\
}