{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 (Working Title) Cover Letter Brainstorm\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 1. Facing My Fear and Nervousness\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Right now, I\'92m one day away from starting my civil service, which leaves me only five days (or more accurately, five evenings after physically tiring workdays) to finalize a portfolio I\'92ve poured every bit of energy into over the last three weeks\'97juggling a physically demanding job and navigating personal crises along the way. I\'92ve never thrown myself so completely into a project that I could shape entirely on my own terms.\
That freedom is both exhilarating and terrifying. On one hand, no one\'92s telling me what to do or how to do it\'97which is wonderful. On the other hand, if it fails or if people think it\'92s terrible, I can\'92t just say, \'93Well, someone else told me to do it this way.\'94 I\'92m fully responsible for every aspect of this portfolio. If it\'92s well-received, I can proudly say I made it all by myself. But if people criticize it, I can\'92t push that onto anyone else. It\'92s all me, and that vulnerability feels huge.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 2. The Beauty (and Challenge) of Freedom\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 During these past few weeks, I\'92ve felt so alive. I\'92ve been rolling out of bed at seven in the morning just to spend an hour or two at my desk coding before my bike courier shift, often determined to fix one specific bug that might\'92ve haunted me for days. When a new feature actually works the first time around, or when I finally track down some elusive error, the sense of accomplishment is incredible\'97it makes every frustration worthwhile.\
Having the freedom to decide how this project should look and what direction it should take has given me a drive I barely recognize in myself. Coming from an environmental engineering background where I was constantly told exactly what to study or memorize, this feels like a breath of fresh air. In that world, success often amounted to being able to learn and regurgitate information under pressure, earning a piece of paper that says, \'93Yes, you can perform well in difficult conditions.\'94 But rarely was I ever encouraged to say, \'93I want to explore 
\f2\i this
\f1\i0  topic because it fascinates me.\'94\
I also grew up in an environment that valued a straight-and-narrow academic path, with the goal of a secure job, a stable income, and eventually a house for a future family. Creativity was never exactly 
\f2\i discouraged,
\f1\i0  but it wasn\'92t actively rewarded or even acknowledged. As a result, it often felt like there was no space for it\'97yet, I know now that wasn\'92t entirely true. My life outside school and university has always contained sparks of creativity; it\'92s just that I never called it \'93design\'94 or even recognized it as such until recently.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 3. Realizing \'93Design\'94 Is Bigger Than Objects\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 One moment that truly changed my perspective was discovering that design can mean so much more than just creating physical objects. Once I let that idea sink in, I realized I\'92ve been \'93designing\'94 things my entire life\'97whether it was my appearance, the ways I connect with people, or my approach to moments of intense emotion. That insight gave me permission to see myself as someone who\'92s been working creatively all along, even if I never dared to use that label before.\
If you\'92ve looked at my 
\f0\b design-oriented CV
\f1\b0  (where I talk about clothing, experiences of ecstasy, and reevaluating my life), you\'92ll know I\'92ve explored these processes in a deeply personal way. They weren\'92t necessarily meant to produce something tangible for others; they were about self-expression and the freedom to break down and reimagine the world around me. Through my portfolio project, though, I\'92ve learned that creating something physical\'97or at least visible to the outside world\'97also brings its own kind of joy and fulfillment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 4. What I Learned from Building My Portfolio\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 In working on this portfolio, I discovered I genuinely love shaping a project from the ground up. I felt an incredible sense of motivation and excitement each day. Whether or not I start studying with you in September, I\'92m grateful for how this whole process pushed me to explore and articulate my own creative impulses.\
With my 
\f0\b portfolio
\f1\b0 \'97including the online simulation, my personal texts, and my design-oriented CV\'97I wanted to show how I can weave together complex themes into something (hopefully) accessible and meaningful for others to experience. My hope is that anyone who interacts with it will get a sense of who I am, what drives me, and how I think.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 5. My Understanding of \'93Design\'94 (So Far)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 To me, designing something means capturing a state, situation, or process. By describing and visualizing it\'97whether for myself or for other people\'97I can help make it clearer, easier to grasp, and more engaging. At the same time, design allows me to reflect on the tangle of inner conflicts, contradictions, and insecurities floating around in my head.\
I also see it as a way to encourage others to think differently about issues like capitalism, imperialism, or patriarchy\'97tackling them in more open, human-centered ways. I\'92m hoping this program will offer a space where people want to challenge norms, combine perspectives in new ways, and support each other in learning how to shape the future more thoughtfully.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 6. Why I\'92m Reaching Out\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Overall, this entire portfolio is my attempt to convey why I\'92m passionate about studying design\'97and why I think I\'92d be a good addition to the program. I believe my unique background, my willingness to question old patterns, and my desire to understand the world can truly enrich any environment that values creativity and critical thinking.\
Yet I also see how I would benefit from being around other curious people who want to look beyond standard ways of thinking and doing. Ultimately, if, after reading this letter and exploring my portfolio, you feel like we could both gain from working together, I\'92d be thrilled to meet you and talk about what the future might hold.\
}