{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh11000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What Could the Future Hold?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 After describing\cf0  where the project currently stands, \cf2 I would additionally\cf0  like to share \cf2 the potentials of further development regarding the simulation\cf0 . \cf2 In regard to the website I would have loved to refine the design and some of the mechanisms?.\cf0  This includes \cf2 elevating\cf0  the layout, creating a more unified look and adding more effects and links to guide \cf2 visitors\cf0  smoothly through the content.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 General Thoughts on the Website\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 I plan to keep the website in some shape or form with the idea to potentially expand it in the future. The concept using website that features my CV, portfolio, and cover letter really appeals to me. It lets me tie different points together and offer a cohesive application.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Ideas for the Simulation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Enhancing the Simulation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 The visualization is an aspect that I would have loved to spend much more time on. Currently it shows a pixelated green area along with health bars and graphs to illustrate the populations\'92 current states. With an introduction and some instructions the simulation becomes understandable\'97but my goal was for visitors to see the simulation and immediately grasp what is happening. Especially with the depth of information on population dynamics, there is a potential to show more detailed visuals. One thing I considered was a 3D animation, viewed from above, showing how the forest evolves over time.\
I\'92ve created a [LINK] sketch outlining these further ideas, which I would have most probably developed with the help from softwares like Blender or Three.js. If users could see a 3D forest\'97possibly with deer and wolves moving around\'97it would be easier and more intuitive to understand their different roles in the ecosystem. However, since Blender and Three.js were completely new tools for me, the time investment to implement them would have been out of proportion.\
Another way to incorporate real-life phenomena in an intuitive manner would have been to offer different starting conditions. Visitors could choose from preset scenarios like \'93pest invasion,\'94 \'93severe weather conditions,\'94 \'93climate shift,\'94 or \'93intense forestry.\'94\
And then after the simulation has finished, give the visitor a feedback on how they did. I thought about giving them a more detailed ethical, environmental and financial feedback based on the decisions they made. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Scientific Models\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 In a more scientific setting that focuses on results and numbers rather than visualization, it would also be possible to expand the ecosystem with additional species or enrich existing populations with further functions, depending on the data needed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Games for Decision Makers\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 I have heard of projects that create games or simulations for decision-makers, giving them a low-risk, playful environment to guide them toward choices, that benefit humans and nature rather than their own privileges and financial interests. The development and use of accessible games to highlight global issues and subtly propose more sustainable and ethical choices are very interesting to me. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Other Simulations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Working on this portfolio led to further thoughts about potential simulations. For example, I have often imagined a simulation including different aspects of society and politics and testing which forms of protest or resistance could be most effective in driving specific social or political change. This would enable to grasp an idea of developments and effects of different forms of protests. I am really curious about the feasibility of such a simulation.\
In general, all forms of sociological dynamics seem very tempting to model. To model does not necessarily imply to calculate and predict different potential scenarios, but also illustrate social phenomena in a playful, interactive and intuitive way. \
Another idea came up recently during my civil service in Wallis, where I am working on a biotope care program. Because this weeks site is so difficult to access, a helicopter had to transport all of our heavy gear. My group discussed whether the helicopter\'92s carbon emissions are justified by the biodiversity benefits of caring for this remote biotope. Of course, it is not only an ecological but also an ethical question. Maybe a simulation could offer interesting insights by weighing factors like habitat improvement, species protection, and carbon costs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Conclusion
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Yes, I really enjoyed the work and the process of this project. And as described here, I could very well imagine continuing to work on this or similar projects.\
But I could also imagine working on all kinds of other projects in the future, be they of a conceptual, artisanal, digital or some hybrid nature.\

\fs24 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}